[Music]
hi everyone I am Haase from a a decade
and you're watching learn web server is
in 30 minutes in this video or lecture
we will learn the basics of is we will
go over what's is how it works we're
going to install it on on both windows
10 client and windows server will go and
host our websites we will see how to
work with binding application pools and
much much more when you finish this
video you will be able to start working
with is and start hosting your own
websites if you are ready let's start
together but before please don't forget
subscribe to our Channel and like the
videos so you can get all the updates
when I release new lectures and videos
thank you and let's start so what is is
or Internet Information Services let's
make things simple by looking over this
example let's say we have a web
application or a website it can be
static or dynamic like asp.net or PHP
and now we need to make it available all
over the world on the Internet
so now to bring the website online
obviously we have to host it in a web
server and whenever a user requests the
website by trying to type its name in a
web browser address the requests will be
resolved by the worldwide DNS servers in
order to acquire the server IP address
and then it will route the user request
to the target web server then the
observer is responsible for processing
the request and replying back to the
user
on a fall of HTML pages using HTTPS or
HTTP protocol wait a little bit was the
relation between is and what I am
talking about simply is is a Windows
component that works as a web server and
it's responsible for hosting both web
and active
sites on your server very nice now let's
install is on both understand and
Windows Server 2012 r2 let's start with
Windows 10 it's very simple let's open
the control panel open programs then
click on turn Windows Features on or off
and here just check entered information
services
and click okay very simple
let's wait a little bit for is to be
installed
now click close very nice let's open the
Start menu now and search for iOS here
it is open it and this is the Iast
management console this where most our
work will be in now let's install iOS or
Windows Server 2012 r2 it's very simple
just open server manager by clicking on
the shuttle icon and taskbar or just
open the Start menu and click on the
server manager now click on manage add
roles and features to add a role select
role-based or feature-based installation
and click Next here is my server I am
installing on if you are managing a
remote server then we should select the
appropriate server now in the roles list
go down and check web server I scroll it
will ask you to add some features later
I asked just click add features now just
continue to the role servers tab and
here we have a list of all services
related to is role I'm going to install
just some of the main features to work
with the core of is just check asp.net
3.5 and 4.5
also I will select the management
service that allows you to manage this
server remotely and I think this is
enough later on we will install each
service as needed now click Next and the
Hedra a small thing I want to mention
which is related to Windows Server 2012
and Windows 8 when you try to add dotnet
framework 3.5 the installation will ask
you for the installation directory which
is located on the Windows installation
disk or ISO file so now just click on
specify an author source path and open
your installation disk or ISO file then
go to the sources folder then sxs and
copy this directly to the installation
wizard okay I think this is simple now
let's click install and begin the
installation
all right awesome here we are the
installation finished let's close it and
as you can see now we have an eye a
stroll is alt or main server manager
dashboard in the left now we can click
on tools open and that information
services manager here and here we are
this is the main console and here is a
slight section we had a default website
that is add automatically let's click on
browse test it very nice this is the
default website is working and
everything is fine hi friends here i am
again just i want to mention something
it this video is a part or a small part
of my web server is master course on
udemy if you are interested in learning
more about is about advanced options
about securing ideas about high
availability about three case scenarios
are much much much more then you can
find my course link in the description
below if you want thank you and let's
continue our course before going deep in
the course and when i talk about a small
tool from microsoft that's very
important when it comes to managing is
web server it is the web platform
installer to let's go directly into the
topic and start by installing the tool
to see how it works
just open your web browser and search
for web platform installer you'll find
the first thing on google from Microsoft
just open the link and here in my case
it's very 5.0 the latest version click
on free download and save the file and
continue your installation it's very
basic once the file run and here we are
this is the tool installed are ready to
be used as you can see we have products
we have applications in the products we
have server products frameworks we have
the bases and tools and so on basically
what this tool does it allows you to
install some components and models
related to iOS and facilitate the work
with these components and updating
installing and so on
so as you can see we have in
applications PHP we have Python we have
Windows SDKs ready to Azure also we have
WordPress Joomla Moodle and so on we
have a lot a lot of applications and
models that we can use simply with our
is server let's do an example I will
search for URL rewrite which is a very
important tool you know I asked totally
about it now just I'm testing there were
platform installer tool just select it I
click install it will show you the
prerequisites and what will happen just
click accept and the installation will
begin and everything will be done by the
web platform tool you don't worry about
anything
everything will be configured and
installed using the tool and this is
what it makes it very powerful all right
now let's start by creating our first
website and see how to host it and I
asked manager let's open I ass simply
click on the server manager icon and
click on Tools then intent of formation
services manager if you remember here we
so we have a default website in the side
section and we open that using the
browser it's localhost just write
localhost in your browser address and
this is our default website so now let's
create our own custom website just try
click on sites and click add a website
alright as you can see we have to set
the site name the site name is the name
that will appear in the eyes manager as
a best practice set this site name as
your domain name so it will be easier
for management especially if you have
multiple websites on your server so
setup website name I will set website
one calm and the next thing we have to
do is to set the physical path
simply the physical path is where your
website files are located here I will
select my sample website and iron pop
folder directory and the C Drive which
is a default path that comes with the
website manager select my path web
server one let's see where this is
located up in the C Drive iron pub and
here we have website 1 and here is their
website
let's open the index page it's a sample
HTML static website let's operate and
here we are this is my sample website
now the second option we have to set is
the bindings bindings are very very
important I will explain it a little bit
but for now bindings is the method that
the is uses to identify web sites upon
requests so when I user requests a
certain website using its hostname or
its IP address the binding is
responsible for identifying and getting
the appropriate website upon that
request in the bindings we have 4 things
to set the first one is the protocol
type we can set between HTTP and HTTPS
if you are using SSL certificate for
securing your website we will talk about
this later the second thing that set is
the IP address you can set your website
to a pin using a specific IP address or
using any IP address on your server I
will keep it as all outside now and
third thing you have to set as the port
number as you know HTTP by default works
on port 80 so it's not recommended to
change this port
except if you are using a private
application that you want to secure with
a certain port number it's up to you and
now we have the hostname simply it is
the domain name of your website or your
subdomain in my case I will be using
localhost since I am working with a lab
environment just to test now our website
and here we are so here we are we create
our new website website
komm let's open it click on browse and
oops we have up in the local host and
the default website open and not our new
website what happened
simply this happens because both
websites have the same bindings
we have localhost as a domain name or as
a host name for both websites so to fix
this we have to edit the bindings so
edit the bindings of our website and we
have to change the host name to a
certain chemical name for us since this
air lab and you don't have a public
domain name to use I will do a simple
trick using the hosts file alright to do
this let's open notepad as administrator
so open the Start menu go to notepad and
be sure to right click and run as
administrator
now click file and let's open the hosts
file navigate to see windows system32
drivers
ET cie folder then click on show all
files and here is the host file open it
and here we are now let's add a record
and this host file I will say 127.0.0.1
which is a local address let's map it
our domain name website 1.com simply
what this file is it somehow acts as a
local DNS for your Windows server so it
can map an IP address to your domain
name in this way when we map our domain
to the local address when the browser
tries to access this domain name it
thinks that this domain is hosted
locally so it navigates to your local
server to open it
I hope ideas simple now just save the
file and that's close it
right website one calm in the in the
bindings hostname and let's now try to
open our website
and very very nice as you can see we
opened website 1.com in our browser and
everything is fine so now we have two
websites our default website with local
host host name binding and our hosted
website website 1.com you can simply
right-click on the website and click
explode up in the physical directory and
see your files so this is it at hat and
this is how you can create your website
your own website and host it inside the
is server mange alright everyone I hope
you are enjoying my course and
everything is fine
okay let's consider we have a user
requesting a certain website code that
we WW web 1.com so whenever i use a
request a website the worldwide dns
servers will get the request and you
targeted to the appropriate server on
the Internet and this is done using the
server's IP so now we have selected the
appropriate server which is hosting the
website very nice now inside this web
server we may have multiple web sites
hosted so how the server will know which
website the user is requesting very
simple this is done using the websites
bindings so here it comes the roles of
bindings as I showed you before we can
use multiple parameters to identify or
differentiate between websites on the
same server this can be by the domain
name or the host name like in our case
where we are using web 1.com as the host
name or may be using the IP address or
even the port number we will see this in
a little bit also is we'll know the
connection is secured using HTTP as
protocol by looking at the configuration
of the bindings for this website I hope
you got the point and how the bindings
works in general let's now go back to
our server to show you how to use these
bindings and to show the fanciness
so first let's delete the default
website since we are not going to use it
again our course will work with our
custom websites now we have website
1.com it's tested up in the browser
website 1.com very very nice everything
is fine now let's write a click on the
website and click on edit bindings
select our binding and click Edit here
we have set the website to bind to a
certain hostname let's remove it now and
select an IP address this is the default
IP in our server and click OK and close
this dialog now up in the browser and
let's type the IP address in the address
bar as you can see now our website is
working but using the IP address and not
the hostname okay let's now do another
thing open the bindings again and now I
will change the port number and cell to
now let's refresh our website using the
same ip address but the website will
fail to load why is that simply because
we change the port to 81 in the binding
and by default the web browser is using
port 80 to work with the HTTP protocol
so obviously it will fail to load the
website so now if want to fix this let's
open the website but now just add a
colon after the IP address and add a t1
is a port number and awesome that's it
now our website is working under port 81
I hope you get the point and everything
is clear when we create a new website
and I is as you can see here in the
wizard automatically is will create an
application pool for the website to work
with so what is an application pool to
make things simple
whenever you has a website on your web
server the website processing and
execution we
be done using a worker processor which
is a part of the application pool so for
that the application pool will
automatically be created when you create
a website you can think of it as a
logical container where the website will
work inside now each website can have
its own application pool or you can
create multiple websites that use the
same application pool alright so here we
are again our server we can find the
list of application pools here by
clicking on the application pools icon
on the left and here is the list of
application pools on your server here as
you can see we have website one website
two application pools each associated
with its own website now to add a new
application pool simply gotta click here
and click on add application pool now
set the name of the application pool you
want and here we have two option the
framework and the pipeline mode in
general if your application is using
dotnet then select the appropriate
framework from the list if it's a PHP
website or a website that is not using
dotnet then you can use non-managed code
and the pipeline mode for now set it to
integrated and go for it the classic
mode is used an is-6 for all the
websites now we can go to the Advanced
Settings of any website and change the
application pool you want to run your
website on it very simple
now let's see this up in web browser and
let's open my website website 1.com now
open task manager and go to the details
section and here if we go down you will
see the WPW process this is the process
of the worker processor that is
associated with this website application
pool you can see the user name is
website 1.com which is the identity of
the website the application port is
running with let's now again open
website to calm and as you can see we
have other process created for this
website with website to calm identity so
this what I am talking about is the
processor or the worker processor that
is associated with a certain website now
if these two websites were working with
the same application pool then we have
one process only for both if you want to
monitor and see the worker processes
that are working inside your is manager
just click on the server node and click
on worker processes and he will find all
the worker processes running on the
server we can see the CPU usage the
process ID the state the private and the
virtual memory and so on alright now
what is the main reasons for using
application pools as I mentioned before
we can create multiple websites for the
same application pool and we can create
multiple application pools on the same
server this architecture will provide
isolation for our websites so isolation
is the main reason for using application
pools so now we can use different
frameworks like framework two in the
first application pool and framework for
for the other one
or we can implement different security
aspects or maybe apply different
settings that corresponds to each group
of websites so we can have for isolation
between websites so at application pool
as an example recycles the other
application pool websites will not be
affected
other thing you have to know let's take
this example we have a website which
have two folders containing two sections
of our pages of your website let's say
the services pages and the card pages
what you have to know is that we can
divide a certain website into multiple
application pools like moving the
services folder to an application pool
and the card other application pool like
application pool one and application
pool two in her this example in this way
if you have a part of your website that
has some bugs or maybe you are testing
something new that may contain some bugs
or may cause the application pool to
reboot then in this way the second part
of your website will not be affected and
this is very important if you are
testing something as I mentioned all
right now I wanna show you how to
install and configure FTP server on your
web server in order to access your files
and websites using FTP first thing you
have to do is navigate the seven manager
and be sure to install the FTP server
feature or role click on manage add
roles and features navigate to the
server roles and navigate down to
observer and check FTP server expand it
and check FTP accessibility also click
on next next install just wait a moment
now it's finished
let's open again what server manager
click on the server node now in the
sides just try to click and now we can
have the capability to an FTP site let's
add one let's name it web one FTP is an
example select the physical path I will
say see oneth pub website one as an
example and click OK
now click on next here you can select
the binding as in the web site you can
select any IP address and the port would
be wonderful 21 that is used
f2p so if you are using FTP on your
server please be sure to allow all
support 21 and you in your firewall we
can select the SSL to be used also then
it will be SFTP now I will use no SSL
and I will start the FTP site let's
click on next here you guys like the
authentication you can set animals of
course you don't want to use an
authentication with FTP so anyone can
access your data so I've just use the
basic authentication and select the
users you want you can select specified
users and let's say as an example admin
and you select the permission tree and
write or maybe all only read it's up to
your architecture and click finish now
you have this woops web FTP can be
accessed remotely using an FTP client
alright let's test our FTP now just open
your browser and search for FTP client
and you'll have a list of the big lines
you can download I am working with
FileZilla just now download FileZilla
client click on download and download
the software and install it it's very
simple after installing the software
this FileZilla client just open it and
now I will say localhost since I'm
working locally here of course here you
set the IP of the server or the name of
the server your domain name just enter
the username which is admin and set the
password which is the Windows
administrator password and we use port
21 and let's click on Quick Connect as
you can see this website here is listed
and this as our files FTP will help you
if you want to update your data your
files or your website from directly
synchronized from your local machine
which is the developer machine to the
target website you can synchronize
directly by uploading downloading file
as you can see upload files and
downloading files and so on so this is
how you can configure FTP service on
your web server to access your website
remotely using FTP clients okay before I
end this video I want to show you how to
install WordPress on your is server and
I will show you the power of the web
platform installer tool just open your
server node and click on web platform
installer that we installed in the last
lectures just double-click to open it
and wait a little bit for it to load
alright now simply search for WordPress
and here it is this is the WordPress
application click on add and simply
click install now it will ask you for
the prerequisites it says with my sequel
and it's not installed just select the
password of the root and everything will
be configured automatically this is the
root password of my sequel just put it
here and click continue and it will show
you that it will install WordPress with
my sequel for Windows just click I
accept and now just wait for the
installation to finish it's very simple
as you can see this is the power of the
web platform installer if you want to do
this manually you have to download the
my sequel connectors my sequel SDKs my
sequel for Windows and sold them and get
the WordPress from its website install
them and configure them and so on this
will be done automatically using the web
platform installer for that it's very
important to install it on your is
server now just wait a little bit for
the installation to finish wonderful the
installation is finished and now run in
the configuration section just select a
new website and give it a website name
let's say my wordpress and this top site
name let's say wordpress let's name it
WP and let's set the physical path to my
computer c drive on it pop make a new
folder here and let's say wordpress and
now let's click OK
and said the bindings here the IP
address is what assigned and port 80 and
let's name the hostname as www my WP
dot-com so this is my hostname I will
put this in the host file as I showed
you in the lecture where we installed
our first website now just open notepad
run as administrator and let's open the
hosts file it's in the C Drive windows
system 32 drivers et Cie click all files
and he's the host file and now I will
get this host name and paste it down
here one two seven zero zero dot one and
here we are let's save it I can close
this I click continue and he we have to
set some authentication keys that
WordPress uses you can use any phrases
for now let's say I will put this phrase
1 3 just corrupt or press and that's
copy it copy this here and here just
copy the security keys salt and click on
continue and the configuration will now
start as you can see the installation is
very simple using the web platform
installer let's wait a little bit now
and awesome as you can see it shows you
the password of your database the
username and the password you can save
these so you can use them later
just put them somewhere else on your
notepad or any file and click on finish
very nice as you can see the browser
will open automatically and this is my
website my WP com is opened
automatically and this is the WordPress
installation click continue and either
side tight
the username and so on you can continue
the installation and start using
WordPress using your is server welcome
again I hope you enjoyed this mini
course and you got some benefit and you
can now start working with web server or
is as I mentioned before if you are
interested in learning more about is and
go more in details please refer to the
link in the description and I will be
with you in the mastery course thank you
for following if you like the video
don't forget subscribe to our channel to
like the video and to press on the bell
for notifications you can also view our
other lectures thank you and see other
videos